Configured the Redaction type and generated using kubebuilder all the… (#1319)
odigos-io/odigos: docs/pipeline/actions/attributes/piimasking.mdx

---
title: "Pii Masking"
sidebarTitle: "Pii Masking"
---

The "PII Masking" Odigos Action can be used to mask PII data from span attribute values.

### Use Cases

#### Security

- By default, OpenTelemetry should not record PII (Personally Identifiable Information) or sensitive data such as passwords, api tokens, etc. However, if the data is accidentally added to the telemetry signals, or if a manual instrumentation recorded it into an attribute, this action can be used to mask such data.

#### Legal and Compliance

- Ensure compliance with legal and privacy.
    - EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) prohibits txhe transfer of any personal data like birthdates, addresses, or ip addresses across borders without explicit consent from the data subject.
    - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) requires that all health data be protected from unauthorized access.

>     - Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards prohibit logging certain things or storing them unencrypted.

Reviewer: I like that we add a section regarding compliance, but suggest that we mention just the categories we are currently addressing

### Mechanism

> This action processes a list of PII categories to be masked from the traces. Each PII category is linked to a regex expression that will be applied to all span attribute values. Any portion of the span attribute values that match the regex expression will be replaced with `****`, while the rest of the attribute value will remain unchanged.

Reviewer: like the new text 🤩

### Basic Example

The basic example below shows how to configure the Pii Masking action to mask Visa and Master cards from span attribute values.

Create a file named `piimasking.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
apiVersion: actions.odigos.io/v1alpha1
kind: PiiMasking
metadata:
  name: piimasking
  namespace: odigos-system
spec:
  actionName: "PII Masking"
  piiCategoryConfigurations:
    - mask: true
      category: CREDIT_CARD
  signals:
    - TRACES
```

Apply the action to the cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f piimasking.yaml
```

### Full Action Options

The full list of options available for the "PiiMasking" action are:

> - `piiCategoryConfigurations` (required): An array of dictionaries where each dictionary has two keys: `mask` and `category`. `category` is the PII Category you want to mask and `mask` is a boolean value that indicates if to mask or not.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should also document the supported values for `category`. How can a user discover the list value to populate here?

---
title: "Pii Masking"
sidebarTitle: "Pii Masking"
---

The "PII Masking" Odigos Action can be used to mask PII data from span attribute values.

### Use Cases

#### Security

- By default, OpenTelemetry should not record PII (Personally Identifiable Information) or sensitive data such as passwords, api tokens, etc. However, if the data is accidentally added to the telemetry signals, or if a manual instrumentation recorded it into an attribute, this action can be used to mask such data.

#### Legal and Compliance

- Ensure compliance with legal and privacy.
    - Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards prohibit logging certain things or storing them unencrypted.

### Mechanism

> This action processes a list of PII categories to be masked from the traces. Each PII category is linked to a regex expression that will be applied to all span attribute values. Any portion of the span attribute values that match the regex expression will be replaced with `****`, while the rest of the attribute value will remain unchanged.

Reviewer: `regex expression` fix

### Basic Example

> The basic example below shows how to configure the Pii Masking action to mask Visa and Master cards from span attribute values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic example below shows how to configure the Pii Masking action to mask Visa and MasterCard credit card number from span attribute values.
```

Create a file named `piimasking.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
apiVersion: actions.odigos.io/v1alpha1
kind: PiiMasking
metadata:
  name: piimasking
  namespace: odigos-system
spec:
  actionName: "PII Masking"
  piiCategories:
    - CREDIT_CARD
  signals:
    - TRACES
```

Apply the action to the cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f piimasking.yaml
```

### Full Action Options

The full list of options available for the "PiiMasking" action are:

- `piiCategories` (required): An array of strings representing the PII Category you want to mask.

   The available PII categories are:

>     - `CREDIT_CARD`

Reviewer: We need to explain what the user can expect when setting this option
